The contrast sensitivity function (CSF) provides a comprehensive assessment of spatial vision at a variety of spatial frequencies,1 and is used to evaluate and screen a variety of visual disorders.2–8 Thehttps://doi.org/10.1167/tvst.7.6.9 ArticleMeasuring the Contrast Sensitivity Function Using the qCSF Method With 10 DigitsHaiyan Zheng1, Chenxiao Wang1, Rong Cui1, Xianghang He1, Menglu Shen1, Luis Andres Lesmes2, Zhong-Lin Lu3, Jia Qu1, and Fang Hou11 School of Ophthalmology & Optometry and Eye Hospital, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang, China2 Adaptive Sensory Technology, Inc., San Diego, CA, USA3 Center for Cognitive and Brain Sciences, Center for Cognitive and Behavioral Brain Imaging, and Department of Psychology, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USAPurpose: The Bayesian adaptive quick contrast sensitivity function (qCSF) method with a 10-letter identification task provides an efficient CSF assessment. However, large populations are unfamiliar with letters and cannot benefit from this test. To overcome the barrier, we conducted this study.Method: A new font for digits (0~9) was created. The digits were then filtered with a raised cosine filter, rescaled to different sizes to cover spatial frequencies from 0.5 to 16 cycles per degree (cpd), and used as stimuli in a 10-alternative forced choice (10AFC) digit identification task. With the 10AFC digit identification task, the CSFs of five young and five old observers were measured using the qCSF and Psi methods. The estimates from the latter served as reference.Results: The new digit font showed significantly improved similarity structure, Levene’s test, F(1, 88) 1⁄4 6.36, P 1⁄4 0.014. With the 10-digit identification task, the CSFs obtained with the qCSF method matched well with those obtained with the Psi method (root mean square error [RMSE] 1⁄4 0.053 log10 units). With approximately 30 trials, the precision of the qCSF method reached 0.1 log10 units. With approximately 75 trials, the precision of the CSFs obtained with the qCSF was comparable to that of the CSFs measured by the Psi method in 150 trials.Conclusions: The qCSF with the 10 digit identification task is validated for both young and old observers.Translational Relevance: The qCSF method with the 10-digit identification task provides an efficient and precise CSF test especially for people who are unfamiliar with letters. 1conventional CSF measurement in the laboratory is very time-consuming,9 while the clinically available chart for CSF assessment, such as the Vistech chart or Functional Acuity Contrast Test (FACT) exhibited very poor test–retest reliability.10,11 Recently, Lesmes et al.12 developed the Bayesian adaptive quick CSFTVST j 2018 j Vol.7 j No.6 j Article9This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License. Downloaded from tvst.arvojournals.org on 07/26/2024(qCSF) method to efficiently measure the CSF with high precision and accuracy. The method was further improved by incorporating a 10-alternative forced choice (10AFC) letter identification task.13In addition to its efficiency and precision, the qCSF has shown great test–retest reliability as well as sensitivity in detecting changes of visual functions.14 The qCSF has been used to measure the CSF in several clinical populations, including subjects with amblyopia,15,16 multiple sclerosis,6 dry age-related macular degeneration,17 central serous chorioretinop- athy (Marmalidou, et al. IOVS, 2018;59:ARVO E- Abstract 3126), glaucoma,18 early diabetic retinopa- thy,19 and aging.20 It also has been used to investigate dynamic effects of visual adaptation,21 the time course of postoperative recovery of the CSF of patients who experienced extended periods of early-onset blind- ness,22 visual performance change after blur adapta- tion,23 and the impact of emotional arousal on the CSF,24 as well as CSF in peripheral vision.25 These studies demonstrated the potential of the qCSF method in clinical applications.The qCSF method implemented with the 10AFC task and Sloan letter stimuli is approximately two times more efficient than that implemented with the 2AFC grating orientation identification task in the original qCSF development.13 Letter identification is also a task more relevant to daily vision than the grating orientation identification task.26 However, people in non-Latin alphabet–using countries who are unfamiliar with English letters cannot benefit from the more efficient qCSF test with letter stimuli. To address this problem, we implemented the qCSF method with a new set of Arabic digit stimuli in a 10AFC digit identification task in this study.The Arabic numeral set, 0–9, is the most com- monly used symbolic system in the world.27 Arabic digit stimuli already have been used in assessing visual acuity (Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study [ETDRS] number charts; Precision Vision, Woodstock, IL), contrast sensitivity,28 and crowding effects.29 However, the digit fonts used to generate the stimuli in those studies are not suitable for the CSF test. The fonts used in the ETDRS number chart and contrast sensitivity chart of Khambhiphanta et al.28 are very similar. Both have a very uneven similarity structure in which digits 3, 6, 8, and 9 are much more confusable with each other than with the other digits. Khambhiphanta et al.28 found that their observers performed much worse in identifying digits 3, 6, 8, and 9 than other digits. This is probably why only a subset of the 10 digits is used in the ETDRS number2chart and the Khambhiphanta et al.28 contrast sensitivity chart. Since test efficiency increases with the number of alternatives in forced-choice identifi- cation tasks,13 using only a subset of the 10 digits would make the test less efficient. It also may introduce unwanted memory burdens on the observ- er30 and additional complications to the underlying psychophysical model of the qCSF test.The crowding chart designed by Pelli et al.29 has nine digits with a font specially designed to have a 1:5 width-to-height ratio to measure crowding effects. The 1:5 width-to-height ratio renders the digits not suitable for the CSF test because they became very difficult to recognize after we filtered them with a radially isotropic log-cosine filter.31,32 Here, we redesigned the font of the digit stimuli for the qCSF test.In this study, we aim to implement and validate the qCSF method in a 10AFC task with a new digit optotype set. We first redesigned the font of the 10 digits so that the digit stimuli had a more even similarity structure among them and, thus, less response bias. The digits were bandpass filtered to create suitable stimuli for the CSF test. The similarity structure of digit stimuli in the new font were examined and compared with that of digit stimuli used by Khambhiphanta et al.28 We then implement- ed the qCSF method with the new digit stimuli and validated the method with young and old observers. The latter are representative of a Chinese population that cannot read letters. For the purpose of valida- tion, the Psi method33 was used to provide an independent measure of contrast sensitivity in a range of spatial frequencies. The results obtained from the Psi method were used as references to evaluate qCSF performance. Because CSF has been reported to decrease with age,34 we also evaluated the perfor- mance of the qCSF method in detecting the CSF difference between the old and young observers.